Challenge 2: What color is it? The Stroop Effect

Program a simple experiment to test the famous Stroop Effect. The Stroop effect demonstrates that it is difficult to name the ink color of a color word if there is a mismatch between ink color and word. For example, it takes longer to identify the color of the ink when the word GREEN is printed in an incongruent ink (e.g. red) than when it is printed in a congruent (green). Code an experiment where participants see words of the following colors: RED, GREEN, BLUE, YELLOW. In the version of the experiment that you'll program, subjects see a congruent or incongruent word in every trial. At the bottom of the screen, there are squares, one for each possible font color. Subjects' task in each trial is to click on the square that matches the color of the font of the word as fast as they can.

2.1 Create an instructions page where you explain the task to the subject. At the bottom have a button that says "See examples" and that, when clicked, hides the instructions and presents a few demos (examples) of the task. You can do this in several ways (e.g. by embedding an animation —e.g. video, gif) showing a few trials. By simulating a few trials and mimicking the mouse clicks in some way (e.g. maybe the selected square glows, maybe the other colors get dimmer, etc.)

2.2 Add format! Make the instructions appear in ligh gray font, in a serif font, with justified text. Make the button dark blue (rgb values (0, 140, 186)), with white text and somewhat large font. MAke the background black for all the experiment.

2.3 Create the trial structure. Create trials such that in half of them the words are congruent with one of four font colors (RED, GREEN, BLUE, YELLOW), and in half it is incongruent. Now, you need to have all the possible combinations for the incongruent trials, and a matching number of trials for the congruent ones. (e.g. for incongruent trials, RED needs to appear in blue, green, and yellow colors, so you need 3 trials with RED in red font to make sure there are the same number of congruent and incongruent trials for each color word). Present in random order.

2.4 Create the experiment. In each trial, subjects see a color word at the middle of the screen, in capital letters, sans-serif font, 64pt). The word remains on screen until subjects respond. At the bottom of the screen there are four 100px circles evenly distributed each with a matching color for each font color used in the words. To select the font color, subjects use their mouse to click on the circle. Once they click on a circle, they advance to the next trial, which starts 500ms afterwards.

2.5 Make sure the order of the response circles at the bottom is randomized across subjects (but is kept fixed for the duration of the experiment for each subject).

2.6 Record all the data from each trial in a dictionary called "expData" with arrays containing the most relevant information, including word color, font color, their response (which circle they picked), reaction time (i.e. how long it took subjects to respond—from the instant the word appears on the screen to when they click on a circle).

==BONUS==

2.7 Prevent subjects from moving to the next trial unless they select the correct answer. Reaction time is now set from stimulus presentation to time of correct response, not their first response (in case they are different). Add to expData an array with information about which circles subjects clicked on before giving a correct answer as well as the RT for each click. Record whether the trial was congruent or incongruent, and how many mistakes the subjects made before getting the answer right.
