Challenge 1: Where is the white square?

Design a very simple task where subjects just determine whether a white square appeared on the left or the right side of the screen.

1.1 Create an instructions page where you explain the task to the subject. At the bottom have a button that, when clicked, hides the instructions and begins presenting the trials after a 2000ms delay.

1.2 Add format! Make the instructions appear in black font, text center-aligned, on a white background. Make the button dark blue (rgb values (0, 140, 186)), with white text and somewhat large font. Make the instructions page background color white.

1.3 Create the experiment. In each trial, subjects see a 100x100px white square 200px to the left or to the right of the center of the screen (the side is randomly determined). In each trial, on the other side of the screen, a green or red 100x100px square appears too (the color is randomly determined). Subjects press a key ("L" or "R") to select the white square side. The next trial begins after 500ms. The experiment consists in 8 trials. The background color when trials are on display should be gray.

1.4 After the final trial, hide the squares and show a message thanking the subject for their participation. Make the message appear on a white background, centered at the top of the screen in a big, bold, red font.

1.5 Make the squares appear only for 250ms.

1.6 Counterbalance the presentation side of the white square (i.e. make it appear, in a random order, the same number of times on the left and the right). Think why this is better than mere randomization.

1.7 Counterbalance the distractors: On half of the trials in which the square appears on the left, the right square is red and on the other half it's green. Same applies when the white square appears on the right.

1.8 Record all the data from each trial in a dictionary called "expData" with arrays containing the most relevant information, including on which side the white square appeared, what color was the other square, what key they pressed, reaction time (i.e. how long it took subjects to respond—from the instant the stimuli appear on the screen to when they press a key), and whether the subject's response was correct or incorrect.

==BONUS==

1.9 Substitute the squares with pictures. Instead of a white square, the new target should be a picture of a puppy. The green and red distractors should now be pictures of a kitten and a baby bear. Make sure the images are still 100x100px and that they are not distorted (i.e. they shouldn't look squeezed or stretched). Change the instructions accordingly.


